Add implementation recomment from metadata (#168)
vacp2p/rfc-index: waku/standards/core/66/metadata.md

}
```

## Implementation Suggestions

### Triggering Metadata Request

A node SHOULD proceed with metadata request upon first connection to a remote node.

> A node SHOULD use the remote's node peer id as identifier for this heuristic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node SHOULD use the remote node's libp2p peer id as identifier for this heuristic.
```

> 

Reviewer: This seems like a heavy requirement as it will likely affect _all_ connections. We don't want a single subscription change to result in 300+ metadata requests, the vast majority of remote peers who may not even be affected by this change. I don't think it's necessary and we can leave it up to the remote parties to eventually get to know this information (with TTL and metadata-on-error implemented).

> 

Author: > I lean more to an event-driven approach, i.e., when something happens, this state change is spread everywhere has interest about it.

We have to weigh in the implication. Yes, I agree event-driven approach within a given node, but not systematically when it implies network request.
In this case, a local-first, or lazy-push approach is preferred.

> Also, if someone configures a TTL==5 minutes, as an extreme example, then we might have metadata requests (+300) that are not needed because nothing changed.

Note that 5 minutes is not the recommended TTL, but it's

> It is RECOMMENDED to set the TTL to 6 hours.

> IMHO, having the TTL concept will lead to more unneeded (+300) requests than having an event-driven approach

Let's see how the software behave but I disagree with your assumption.

> But I may miss something of course :)

A desktop application that make full usage of autosharding may change relay subscription depending on user needs.

While this would not be expected to happen every 10min, it could happen.

> A node MAY proceed with metadata request upon re-connection to a remote peer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node MAY proceed with metadata request upon reconnection to a remote peer.
```

> A node MAY proceed with metadata request upon reconnection to a remote peer.

Author: As you said, metadata information does not change that much, reconnection may happen often with edge nodes.

I think I prefer to leave the recommendation as is, and and we enter the era of dynamic relay subscriptions, we can review.

> A node SHOULD store remote peer's metadata information fo future reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node SHOULD store the remote peer's metadata information for future reference.
```

> A node MAY implement a TTL regarding a remote peer's metadata, and refresh it upon it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node MAY implement a TTL regarding a remote peer's metadata, and refresh it upon expiry by initiating another metadata request.
```

> A node MAY implement a TTL regarding a remote peer's metadata, and refresh it upon expiry by initiating another metadata request.

Reviewer: Remember that a node's metadata might change at any point. Metadata will eventually also be used to advertise more capabilities than just cluster + shard. It makes sense to assume that information like this may grow stale and needs to be refreshed from time to time.

> A node MAY implement a TTL regarding a remote peer's metadata, and refresh it upon expiry by initiating another metadata request.

Reviewer 2: what other capabilities? 
I feel like any additional capability would require `nwaku` to restart - which means to re-connect to the network

> A node MAY implement a TTL regarding a remote peer's metadata, and refresh it upon expiry by initiating another metadata request.

Author: > I want my app to start participating on that shard right away and not wait for TTL to expire.

What do you mean? What does "my app start participating" mean?

>  Then, an event-driven approach seems more convenient, instead of the TTL one, in this case.

So you are saying, if let's say a Status Desktop app that was doing relay on shard 1, stops to do so, then it should go through all the peers it has in its peer store (100s), and trigger a metadata request? do see you how this is not reasonable to have such massive network event triggered?

---

What we are saying is that the TTL + error handling is enough, because it's **lazy**.

1. Alice discovers Bob
2. Alice connects to Bob, do a metadata request and learns Bob is running relay on shard 2
3. Alice disconnect to Bob, because we don't maintain connections by default
4. Alice wants to send message on shard 2
5. Alice re-connect to Bob
6. Alice sends light push request to Bob for message on shard 2
7. Bob stops subscribing to shard 2
8. Alice wants to send new message on shard 2
9. Alice reconnects to Bob
10. Alice sends light push request to bob for message on shard 2
11. Bob rejects, "Shard not supported"
12. Alice connects to alternative node.

In the current recommendation, we suggest:

> A node MAY implement a TTL regarding a remote peer's metadata, and refresh it upon expiry by initiating another metadata request.

> A node MAY proceed with metadata request upon reconnection to a remote peer.

> A node MAY trigger a metadata request after receiving an error response from a remote note stating they do not support a specific cluster or shard.

Which means:

At (5), and (9), we do not recommend a metadata request, before the light push request, every time.
If we were to recommend a metadata everytime we reconnect, it would mean we'd have 2 RTT every time we try to send a message over light push, adding necessary network calls to send a message

At (11), we recommend proceeding with a metadata request due to the error returned, so that Alice can avoid using Bob again for shard 2, while keeping Bob as a suitable service node for other shards (depending on metadata response).

At (7), we do **not** recommend Bob to initiate 100s of connection and metadata requests due to a local event.

> It is RECOMMENDED to set the TTL to 6 hours.

Author: I am happy to remove this recommendation as I am trying to infer too much on Chat sdk patterns.

> It is RECOMMENDED to set the TTL to 6 hours.

Reviewer: I think it's good to have an example number here. It means that we roughly think that, if implementing a TTL, it should be in the order of a few hours (as opposed to a few minutes or a few days). We can always adapt this number based on observation, but I think "friendly" specs can have our best current guesstimate, as long as it's merely a recommendation.

FWIW 4-6 hours is not an uncommon refresh period for network contexts. For example, this is more or less the interval a cellphone network will wait before refreshing the context of an idle phone.

> A node MAY trigger a metadata request after receiving an error stating from a remote note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node MAY trigger a metadata request after receiving an error response from a remote note
```

> stating they do not support a specific shard or pubsub topic.

Reviewer: Presumably we previously assumed they supported that shard, initiated a request and the error indicates that our information is stale.

> stating they do not support a specific shard or pubsub topic.

Author: > what if metadata and actual supported shard are differ? I know we guarantee it in the code but bugs happen and malicious nodes too

I think the recommendation can stop here, good engineering practices are still expected to avoid infinite loop of this kind.

> stating they do not support a specific shard or pubsub topic.

Author: > Besides, I don't fully get why the metadata request is needed upon error reception :)

answered in https://github.com/vacp2p/rfc-index/pull/168#discussion_r2244231804

### Providing Cluster Id

> A node SHOULD always include their cluster id into their metadata payload.

Reviewer 2: then it is a MUST, no?

```suggestion
A node MUST include their cluster id into their metadata payload.
```

It is assumed that a node always operate on a single cluster id.

### Providing Shard Information

- Nodes that mount [`11/WAKU2-RELAY`](/waku/standards/core/11/relay.md) MAY include the shards they are subscribed to in their metadata payload.
- Nodes that mount [`11/WAKU2-RELAY`](/waku/standards/core/11/relay.md) and a shard-relevant service SHOULD include the shards they are subscribed to in their metadata payload.
- Shard-relevant services are message related services,
  such as [`13/WAKU2-STORE`](/waku/standards/core/13/store.md), [12/WAKU2-FILTER](/waku/standards/core/12/filter.md)
  and [`19/WAKU2-LIGHTPUSH`](/waku/standards/core/19/lightpush.md)
  but not [`34/WAKU2-PEER-EXCHANGE`](/waku/standards/core/34/peer-exchange.md)
- Nodes that do not mount [`11/WAKU2-RELAY`](/waku/standards/core/11/relay.md) SHOULD NOT include any shard information

### Using Cluster Id

> When reading the cluster id of a remote peer, the local node MAY disconnect if their cluster id is different from the remote peer.

Author: I would use `RECOMMEND` when it can negatively impact the overall system. I don't think it matters that much here.

### Using Shard Information

It is NOT RECOMMENDED to disconnect from a peer based on the fact that their shard information is different from the local node.

Ahead of doing a shard-relevant request,
a node MAY use the previously received metadata shard information to select a peer that support the targeted shard.

> As part of peer management, a node MAY aim to maintain connections to a healthy pool of peers with different shards,

Author: yes changed.

based on the importance of shards for the application.

> A node SHOULD maintain connection to some nodes in less relevant shards, to uses non-shard-related services such as [`34/WAKU2-PEER-EXCHANGE`](/waku/standards/core/34/peer-exchange.md).

Reviewer 3: When we say less relevant shards, do we mean the shards a node is not interested in? 
If so, it would not be a good idea to maintain connection to those nodes as the connection would anyways get dropped due to idle timeouts at transport layer.

Author: > If so, it would not be a good idea to maintain connection to those nodes as the connection would anyways get dropped due to idle timeouts at transport layer.

That is a con indeed, but the issue I see is when scaling, and hence assuming most nodes are in one shard, then you would disconnect from 87.5% of the nodes you connect to - when assuming equal node distribution among shards. Reducing your change of running peer exchange queries on new peers.

I guess this statement is just a temporary hack to a proper solution which would be capability discovery.

Not what is stated above:

> As part of peer management, a node MAY aim to maintain connections to a healthy pool of peers with different shards,
> based on the importance of shards for the application.

So you could say you maintain connection with 2 peers on non-relevant shards to minimize keep alive overheard.

Author: Indeed, I rephrased as the "maintain connection" part was incorrect. d58b1f635577d7d212bf75680f6e84b4448dc406

> A node SHOULD maintain connection to some nodes in less relevant shards, to uses non-shard-related services such as [`34/WAKU2-PEER-EXCHANGE`](/waku/standards/core/34/peer-exchange.md).

Reviewer 2: do we need to specify this sentence? I am not use it is useful to define
